The Internet has grown to be an integral way of sharing human interaction digitally. Now, more than ever, we upload our data stored in large servers in a farm of the respective data centers. Since more data is being logged, an entire human profile, their net worth, and all their confidential information depend on a breach not happening. Security in the digital world has often been overlooked and very few are willing to detect their vulnerabilities before they occur. Thousands of interactions occur in the network but all it takes is one to destroy the entire system. Intrusion Detection System (IDS) is the digital world’s equivalent of a watcher that analyses everything coming in and out of a system. Using machine learning, human intervention is greatly reduced to the point where the computer itself can perform the task of a security professional. An IDS can filter the thousands of logs generated and based on its learning, warn the admin about a potential breach. Various technologies have arrived in the field of the Intrusion Detection System and none have impacted it like Machine Learning. Many intrusion detection systems and techniques have grown over the years and machine learning is the way each technology will eventually end up with. This project aims to create a explain the need of IDS, the need of security in IT, tools and techniques, challenges and finally develop a simplified IDS using machine learning for HTTP protocol and provide a graphical interface for research purposes such that any technically literate can use it to monitor their logs for potential breaches.
The following code is a sanitized version of the code that was used for my Bachelors Thesis. Web Based Anomaly Detection using Machine Learning.
The logs used and the process is documented in the full report available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/354555312_Web_Based_Anomaly_Detection_using_Machine_Learning
